First,
let's create a new branch that we'll be using to store all the
changes we're making to this application.
We're going to use the git checkout ‑b command and provide
it the parameter of initial‑flask‑app,
which will just be the name of the branch we're using.
Now from here, we'll be working on the initial‑flask‑app branch,
which is why it appears inside of my terminal here.
The next thing we want to do is edit this app.py file
that we added just a little bit earlier,
and in this case I'll be adding a new line of code to import the Flask library.
Now I'll need to fix this flask right here so that it's a capital F,
because that's how the package works, and then on the next line,
we'll be able to start working with our Flask code.
So we'll create our first application with app = Flask,
and then in parentheses, __name__.
This will give us an application with Flask to start working with.
From there,
we'll want to create a new route that we'll be referencing whenever
we hit the endpoints for this Flask application.
We'll do this with @app.route,
and then in parentheses we'll have the first forward slash here.
This means that it will just get everything that goes
to the root of our application.
We'll also just define a simple function here called hello_world,
and I'm going put just a basic return statement in here.
This will allow us to return syntax every time our root route is hit.
So let's just say Hello World, and here after we save this,
we should be able to have this Flask application always return this
anytime someone comes to try and interact with it.
So we'll leave this here as the first part of our feature.
The next step will be setting up these dependencies that we're using.
To do this,
we're going to use something called the virtual environment with Python 3.
Now there's instructions for creating virtual environments inside
of the materials downloads for this course.
Specifically, we're using a Python virtual environment,
not an actual operating system virtual machine or
virtual environment of that nature.
So to do this on several different operating systems,
we can do python3, ‑m for module, and then venv,
and next we'll give the virtual environment we're creating a name; in this case,
we'll just call it venv.
Now,
this might take a second depending on the operating
system you're on; especially on Windows,
it sometimes takes several seconds,
but you should see that we now have a new folder here on the left side of the
screen that includes a bunch of new files that we'll be using.
Now, I don't want to commit these to my source repository.
So if I haven't already,
I'll create a new file inside of the repository called git ignore.
So let's do .gitignore, because it's actually a hidden file,
and then we'll go into this file and we're going to add a
new folder we don't want git to track.
So we'll do venv/, and that should tell it to now ignore our venv folder.
Now, the next thing we're going to need to do,
if I clear this screen here, we can turn on the Python virtual environment.
Now this will be called sourcing it or activating it,
and the way we'll do this on a Windows machine,
a Mac machine, and a Linux machine might differ slightly,
so definitely reference the instructions for the materials in this
course if you need help with this part of the process.
But essentially, in most systems,
there'll be a script to turn on the virtual
environment inside of the venv folder.
To do this on Mac, I can go source venv/bin/activate,
and on other systems,
follow along with the commands in those instructions for this module.
Now, once this is turned on,
you should see a venv in parentheses on the left side of the terminal,
which means that you're working from within the virtual environment.
So now, at this point,
we should be able to install some requirements for this
application inside of this virtual environment.
Now, we're going to do this from our requirements.txt file,
which we're going to make on the side here.
We're going to call this requirements.txt,
like I just said, and then inside of this file,
we'll put two requirements.
We'll do Flask,
and we'll keep the capitalization just because that's kind of standard,
even though with the package manager, it doesn't really matter,
and then we'll use boto3 as the second dependency that we'll be
using later on to work with our Flask application.
So now that the both of these are here, we can run pip install,
and depending on your system, this might be pip3 install instead.
And then we'll use the ‑r flag to specify a requirements file,
which in this case will be our requirements.txt file.
Now it looks like I inadvertently put this in the top‑level folder so
make sure when you're running this command that it's both inside of
your main flasky project here so that we can include it inside of the
git history for this project,
and also so that we can install requirements from it
while it's alongside that venv folder.
So now in my terminal,
I'll complete that pip install ‑r flag here with requirements.txt,
and this will go into requirements.txt and run pip
install Flask and pip install boto3,
but it'll install them all inside of this virtual environment.
So now to test that this application is working,
we can run flask run here,
and this should turn on the development server for our Flask application.
You'll notice that it's currently running on 127.0.0.1:5000,
which is localhost:5000.
So if I click here,
it should open up in my browser that I was working with CodeCommit earlier.
So this is a functional web application here that we could
deploy into a container or somewhere else,
and we should be feeling pretty good about doing this right now,
so we want to go and commit our changes.
I'll go back to my VS Code editor here,
and we can use Ctrl+C to exit out of this Flask application.
Now I'm going to clear the screen,
and we should be able to then commit all our changes.
So let's do git status,
and now you'll see we have a bunch of different stuff in
here and we might not want all of it.
So let's go back to our git ignore file,
and let's also add the dunder or __pycache__/ here so that we don't look at
this pycache folder and the files inside of it either.
Then we can do git status one more time,
and you'll notice that it's just disappeared.
I have to make sure I save git ignore before I do this, though.
So now that we've got all the files we want,
we can do git add dot,
which should add all of the new files that we just added and include the
modifications to the app.py file in the changes we just made.
So if I do git status one more time,
these are now all included in the staging setup,
ready for us to commit it to this initial‑flask‑app branch.
So that's what we're going to do next.
We're going to do git commit and ‑m for a message to go along with this commit,
and we'll say Functional app.
Now,
different organizations might have different standards
for what you put in commit messages, but for right now,
just because it's just us, we'll leave it here,
and then we'll hit Enter.
So now we should be able to push this commit into our CodeCommit repository.
We'll do this with git status,
just to make sure that we have nothing else to push in first,
and then git push and we'll push to the remote with the name of origin,
which is the only remote that we have right now,
and we're pushing to this branch name, not to our main branch directly.
So we should type that out.
We can press tab.autocompleted on most systems,
and then we can enter to push this to our initial‑flask‑app branch.
So now that this is done, you'll notice it says new branch,
and it looks like it's worked pushing into CodeCommit.
So let's go back over to CodeCommit here,
and let's see if there are any new branches after we refresh the page.
It might not appear immediately,
so we might need to do that just to make sure it gets
the new commits we just pushed.
So it looks like main is the same, which is what we would expect,
but we also have this new branch called initial‑flask‑app,
which contains all the other code we just pushed in.
So if we wanted to move this from the initial‑flask‑app into main,
we could create a pull request.
Now, this will look different depending on the provider that you're using,
but with CodeCommit it will allow us to take the destination branch and the
source branch and determine them from these drop‑downs here.
Now we want the destination branch to be main,
because that's where we want to merge all of our code into,
and we want our source branch to be that branch we just pushed,
which is initial‑flask‑app.
If we wanted to compare these line by line,
we could click this Compare button,
and then we could scroll down and look at some of the
changes between these two branches.
So you'll see that we now added a git ignore,
and we made some changes to this app.py file,
as well as adding the requirements.txt file.
So if we're satisfied with all these changes,
then we could go back up here and enter a name for this pull request.
We can give this pull request the name of Initial Flask App ‑ Functioning,
and then we could give a longer description and describe everything else we've
done in this PR, but this should be good for us for right now. And we can click
Create Pull Request. Now in a larger organization,
we might go and ask somebody to review our code or have some established
processes for that, but since it's just us right now,
we would be able to go through any of the details here
with the activity history on the commit,
in case anybody had added anything to it,
changes that this commit actually makes, so if we review the
differences between files and the new files added and the different
commits that were actually made. In this case,
we only made one commit, but if we'd made multiple different
iterations on this code and included them in the merge
requests that we were sending in, we could see that here,
too.
Now, finally, we can look at the Approvals section.
So if there are other users who approved the PR or if we wanted
to create rules that would enable us only to merge this in if
another developer had approved it.
But to finish this off,
let's pretend that somebody had already gone in and approved this,
and now we can merge it into our repository.
So we'll click the Merge button here, and there's a few
different options for how we do this.
If we'd made a bunch of different commits, we could use a squash and merge
strategy here where we push those commits into the same single commit when
merging on to main, but right now we'll use the default,
which is the fast forward merge, which takes all of our commits
and applies them to the top of this branch here.
Now by default,
CodeCommit will have us delete the branch that we just merged the
code from right after we merge it into main, but if we wanted to
keep that branch around for some reason,
we could uncheck the box on the bottom left. After we're ready selecting
our merge strategy, we can click Merge Pull Request, and this should
finally get the commits into our main repository. So you'll see that our
pull request is now in the merged state, and if we go back up to our
repositories, and then we click into flasky from the initial view for
the first time,
you'll see that even on this main branch, we have all three
files we were just working on. In later modules, we'll look at
how we can add tests and deployments to the process of merging in code to our main branch.